Astronomer Release and Maintenance Policy (#492)
astronomer/docs: enterprise/v0.25/08_astronomer-certified/06_support-policy.md

## Overview

Astronomer Certified (AC) is a Debian-based, production-ready distribution of Apache Airflow that mirrors the open source project and undergoes additional levels of rigorous testing conducted by our team. New versions of AC are issued regularly and depend on Apache Airflow's community release schedule.

This Docker image is hosted on [Astronomer's Docker Registry](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags) and allows you to run Airflow on Astronomer. All projects require that you specify an AC image in your `Dockerfile`.

This document provides information on the following:

- How AC is versioned
- Which versions of AC are currently available
- The support schedule and end-of-support date for all versions

For guidelines on how to upgrade, read [Upgrade Apache Airflow on Astronomer](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.25/customize-airflow/manage-airflow-versions).

## Versioning Scheme

> Astronomer Certified follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). This means that we ship Major, Minor, and Patch releases of Astronomer Certified in the format of `major.minor.patch-hotfix`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer Certified follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). This means that Astronomer ships Major, Minor, and Patch releases of AC in the format of `major.minor.patch-hotfix`.
```

- **Major** versions are released for significant feature additions, including backward-incompatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Minor** versions are released for functional changes, including backward-compatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Patch** versions are released for bug and security fixes that resolve incorrect behavior.
- **Hotfix** versions may include bug or security fixes not yet available in community releases of Apache Airflow.

> For Astronomer Certified `2.1.3-5`, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For AC `2.1.3-5`, for example:
```

- Major = `2.`
- Minor = `1.`
- Patch = `.3`
- Hotfix = `-5`

It is considered safe to upgrade to minor and patch versions within a major version. Upgrade guidance for major and LTS versions is provided with each release.

> An Astronomer Certified (AC) Docker image will be published for every major and minor version of Apache Airflow. For example, AC images correspond with Apache Airflow 2.0, 2.1, 2.2 etc. as they're released in the open-source project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An AC Docker image will be published for every major and minor version of Apache Airflow. For example, AC images correspond with Apache Airflow 2.0, 2.1, 2.2 etc. as they're released in the open-source project.
```

This document provides information on the following:

- How AC is versioned
- Which versions of AC are currently available
- The support schedule and end-of-support date for all versions

For guidelines on how to upgrade, read [Upgrade Apache Airflow on Astronomer](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.25/customize-airflow/manage-airflow-versions).

## Versioning Scheme

Astronomer Certified follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). This means that Astronomer ships Major, Minor, and Patch releases of AC in the format of `major.minor.patch-hotfix`.

- **Major** versions are released for significant feature additions, including backward-incompatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Minor** versions are released for functional changes, including backward-compatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Patch** versions are released for bug and security fixes that resolve incorrect behavior.
- **Hotfix** versions may include bug or security fixes not yet available in community releases of Apache Airflow.

For AC `2.1.3-5`, for example:

> - Major = `2.`
> - Minor = `1.`
> - Patch = `.3`
> - Hotfix = `-5`

Author: ```suggestion
- Major = `2.`
- Minor = `.1`
- Patch = `.3`
- Hotfix = `-5`
```

### Hotfix Versions

> All hotfix releases of Astronomer Certified have a [corresponding changelog](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.1.0/CHANGELOG.md) which specifies the date the hotfix was released and all individual changes made to it. Bugs that are reported by the wider Airflow community are often fixed in Astronomer Certified before they are fixed in the subsequent open source release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All hotfix releases of AC have a [corresponding changelog](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.1.0/CHANGELOG.md) which specifies the date the hotfix was released and all individual changes made to it. Bugs that are reported by the wider Airflow community are often fixed in AC before they are fixed in the subsequent open source release.
```

> The following table contains all Astronomer Certified images supported on Astronomer Enterprise. For our platform's full collection of Docker images, reference [Astronomer on Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags). For more information on Alpine and Debian as distinct system distributions, read [Migrate from Alpine to Debian](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.25/customize-airflow/manage-airflow-versions#migrate-from-alpine-to-debian).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table contains all Astronomer Certified images supported on Astronomer Enterprise. For the a full list of Docker images, reference [Astronomer on Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags). For more information on Alpine and Debian as distinct system distributions, read [Migrate from Alpine to Debian](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.25/customize-airflow/manage-airflow-versions#migrate-from-alpine-to-debian).
```

| [2.2.0](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.2.0/CHANGELOG.md)     | FROM quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.2.0-buster-onbuild   | N/A                                                           |
| [2.2.1](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.2.1/CHANGELOG.md)     | FROM quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.2.1-onbuild          | N/A                                                           |

## Release Channels

To meet the unique needs of different operating environments, Astronomer Certified versions fall into one of two release channels:

- **Stable**: Includes the latest Astronomer and Airflow features
- **Long-term Support (LTS)**: Includes long-term testing, stability, and support for a core set of features

For customers that want AC's newest features on an incremental basis, we recommend following the stable release channel and upgrading to new versions as soon as they are made generally available. New versions of AC are issued regularly and depend on Apache Airflow's community release schedule.

## Astronomer Certified Support Policy

> Astronomer is committed to supporting all LTS versions of Astronomer Certified (AC) for 18 months from the release date of the Docker image and Python wheel. Additionally, Astronomer supports stable versions of AC from 6 months from the stable version's release date. Within the support window of each Astronomer Certified version, the following is true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer is committed to supporting all LTS versions of Astronomer Certified (AC) for 18 months from the release date of the Docker image and Python wheel. Additionally, Astronomer supports stable versions of AC for 6 months from the stable version's release date. Within the support window of each Astronomer Certified version, the following is true:
```

| [2.1.3](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.1.3/CHANGELOG.md)     | FROM quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.1.3-buster-onbuild   | N/A                                                           |
| [2.1.4](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.1.4/CHANGELOG.md)     | FROM quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.1.4-buster-onbuild   | N/A                                                           |
| [2.2.0](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.2.0/CHANGELOG.md)     | FROM quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.2.0-buster-onbuild   | N/A                                                           |
| [2.2.1](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.2.1/CHANGELOG.md)     | FROM quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.2.1-onbuild          | N/A                                                           |

## Release Channels

To meet the unique needs of different operating environments, Astronomer Certified versions fall into one of two release channels:

> - **Stable**: Includes the latest Astronomer and Airflow features
> - **Long-term Support (LTS)**: Includes long-term testing, stability, and support for a core set of features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Stable:** Includes the latest Astronomer and Airflow features
- **Long-term Support (LTS):** Includes long-term testing, stability, and support for a core set of features
```

> For customers that want AC's newest features on an incremental basis, we recommend following the stable release channel and upgrading to new versions as soon as they are made generally available. New versions of AC are issued regularly and depend on Apache Airflow's community release schedule.

Author: ```suggestion
For customers that want AC's newest features on an incremental basis, we recommend following the stable release channel and upgrading to new versions as soon as they are made generally available. New versions of AC are issued regularly and depend on Apache Airflow's community release schedule.

For customers that want to optimize for the highest level of reliability and stability, we recommend upgrading only to LTS versions as they're made available. Release channels are not binding, so you are free to upgrade to any available version of AC at any time.
```

## Astronomer Certified Support Policy

Astronomer is committed to supporting all LTS versions of Astronomer Certified (AC) for 18 months from the release date of the Docker image and Python wheel. Additionally, Astronomer supports stable versions of AC for 6 months from the stable version's release date. Within the support window of each Astronomer Certified version, the following is true:

- A Python wheel and set of Docker images corresponding to that version are available for download via [Quay.io](http://quay.io), PyPi and [Downloads](https://www.astronomer.io/downloads).
- Astronomer will regularly publish hotfixes for bug or security issues identified as high priority.
- The Astronomer Support team will offer support for paying customers running a supported version of AC via the [Astronomer Support Portal](https://support.astronomer.io).
- A user can create a new Airflow Deployment via the Astronomer UI, CLI, or API with any supported version of AC.

> When a version of Astronomer Certified is not supported, the following is true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a version of AC is not supported, the following is true:
```

- The Astronomer Support team is not obligated to answer questions regarding an Airflow Deployment that is running an unsupported version of Airflow or Astronomer Certified.
- New Airflow Deployments cannot be created with a version of AC that is no longer supported. Deprecated versions will _not_ render as an option in the Deployment creation process from the Astronomer UI, API, or CLI.
- The latest version of the Astronomer CLI will render a warning if a user pushes a Docker image to Astronomer that corresponds to a version of Airflow that is no longer supported.
- Users can continue to locally test versions of AC that are no longer supported via the Astronomer CLI.
- Service will not be interrupted for Airflow Deployments running a version of AC that is no longer supported.

## Support Schedule

The following table contains the exact support timeline for each published version of Astronomer Certified. These timelines are based on the LTS and Stable release channel support policies.

> | AC Version | Release Date   | Release Channel | Support Period | End-of-Support Date |

Author: ```suggestion
| AC Version | Release Date   | Release Channel | Maintenance Period | End of Maintenance Date |
```

| ---------- | -------------- | --------------- | -------------- | ------------------- |

> | 1.10.10    | April 23, 2020 | LTS             | 18 Months      | Oct 23, 2021        |
> | 1.10.12    | Sep 30, 2020   | Stable          | 6 Months       | March 30, 2021      |
> | 1.10.14    | Dec 10, 2020   | Stable          | 6 Months       | June 10, 2021       |
> | 1.10.15    | March 19, 2021 | LTS             | 18 Months      | Sep 19, 2022        |
> | 2.0.0      | Dec 17, 2020   | Stable          | 6 Months       | June 17, 2021       |
> | 2.0.2      | April 26, 2021 | Stable          | 6 Months       | Oct 26, 2021        |
> | 2.1.0      | May 21, 2021   | LTS             | 18 Months      | Nov 21, 2022        |
> | 2.1.1      | July 2, 2021   | Stable          | 6 Months       | Jan 2, 2022         |
> | 2.1.3      | Aug 23, 2021   | Stable          | 6 Months       | Feb 23, 2022        |
> | 2.1.4      | Sep 19, 2021   | Stable          | 6 Months       | March 19, 2022      |
> | 2.2.0      | Oct 12, 2021   | Stable          | 6 Months       | April 12, 2022      |
> | 2.2.1      | Nov 2, 2021    | Stable          | 6 Months       | May 2, 2022         |

Author: ```suggestion
| 1.10.10    | April 23, 2020 | LTS             | 18 Months      | Oct 23, 2021        |
| 1.10.12    | Sep 30, 2020   | Stable          | 6 Months       | March 30, 2021  |
| 1.10.14    | Dec 10, 2020   | Stable          | 6 Months       | June 10, 2021     |
| 1.10.15    | March 19, 2021 | LTS             | 18 Months      | Sep 19, 2022      |
| 2.0.         | Dec 17, 2020   | Stable          | 6 Months       | June 17, 2021       |
| 2.1          | May 21, 2021   | LTS             | 18 Months      | Nov 21, 2022         |
| 2.2         | Oct 12, 2021   | Stable          | 6 Months       | April 12, 2022        |
```

@jwitz Removing the patch specification for releases after 2.0, as we only want to define support policies for major/minor pairs. Let's also add a statement here at the bottom that explains this? I think we already say the same for Enterprise versions

> When a version of Airflow is not supported, the following is true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a version of Astronomer Certified is not supported, the following is true:
```

- The Astronomer Support team is not obligated to answer questions regarding an Airflow Deployment that is running an unsupported version of Airflow or Astronomer Certified.
- New Airflow Deployments cannot be created with a version of AC that is no longer supported. Deprecated versions will _not_ render as an option in the Deployment creation process from the Astronomer UI, API, or CLI.
- The latest version of the Astronomer CLI will render a warning if a user pushes a Docker image to Astronomer that corresponds to a version of Airflow that is no longer supported.
- Users can continue to locally test versions of AC that are no longer supported via the Astronomer CLI.
- Service will not be interrupted for Airflow Deployments running a version of AC that is no longer supported.

> ### End of Maintenance
> 
> Maintenance is discontinued the last day of the month for a given version. For example, if a version of Astronomer Enterprise were supported between January - June of a given year, that version would be maintained by Astronomer until the last day of June.
> 
> Astronomer versions that have reached end of maintenance will no longer be available to select during the Airflow Deployment creation process via the Astronomer UI or CLI.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Support Schedule

The following table contains the exact support timeline for each published version of Astronomer Certified. These timelines are based on the LTS and Stable release channel support policies.

> | AC Version | Release Date   | Release Channel | Support Period | End-of-Support Date |

Reviewer: Worth double checking this table, especially in light of 2.2.0 releasing
